1. Data Engineering Foundations (ETL + Warehousing)
Goal: Show you can move raw data → clean warehouse-ready schema.
	•	Project Idea: Patient Encounter ETL Pipeline
	◦	Ingest FHIR-like patient encounter data from Postgres into a cloud warehouse (BigQuery, Redshift, or Snowflake).
	◦	Transform into a star schema (fact table: encounters, dimensions: patients, providers, diagnoses).
	◦	Document with ERDs + dbt-style transformations.
	•	Tech: Python (ETL), SQL, Airflow/cron, Docker (optional).
	•	Deliverable: GitHub repo + ERD diagram + sample queries proving schema works.

2. Analytics & Reporting (BI + Dashboards)
Goal: Show you can turn raw tables into decision-ready reports.
	•	Project Idea: Healthcare Utilization Dashboard
	◦	Use your encounter star schema.
	◦	Build dashboards in Power BI or Tableau:
	▪	Average wait times
	▪	Encounter counts by provider/specialty
	▪	Readmission rates
	◦	Include drilldowns + interactive filters.
	•	Tech: SQL (aggregations), Power BI/Tableau.
	•	Deliverable: Screenshots/GIFs of dashboard + SQL queries + published dashboard link (if allowed).

3. Advanced Analytics (Cohort & Claims Analysis)
Goal: Highlight your healthcare/claims expertise.
	•	Project Idea: Claims Cost & Demographics Study
	◦	Analyze claims (real or synthetic datasets like CMS DE-SynPUF).
	◦	KPIs: cost per patient, chronic disease prevalence, provider efficiency.
	◦	Cohort comparisons (e.g., diabetic vs. non-diabetic populations).
	•	Tech: SQL, Python (pandas, matplotlib/seaborn).
	•	Deliverable: Notebook + report + data story with visuals.

4. Predictive Modeling (Machine Learning)
Goal: Transition into ML by predicting an outcome from healthcare data.
	•	Project Idea: Readmission Risk Prediction
	◦	Use features: age, diagnoses, encounter history, labs (if dataset allows).
	◦	Train/test: Logistic Regression, Random Forest, XGBoost.
	◦	Evaluate with AUC/ROC, precision-recall.
	•	Tech: Python (scikit-learn, XGBoost, pandas).
	•	Deliverable: Notebook + model comparison + confusion matrix plots.

5. End-to-End Production Project (Pipeline + Analytics + ML)
Goal: One “flagship project” that integrates everything above.
	•	Project Idea: Healthcare Outcomes Platform
	◦	Ingest → Clean → Star Schema → BI Dashboard → Predictive Model.
	◦	Example: “Pipeline for predicting hospital readmissions and reporting utilization metrics.”
	•	Tech: Python, SQL, Airflow, Docker, Power BI/Tableau, scikit-learn.
	•	Deliverable: Full GitHub repo, architecture diagram, demo dashboard, ML notebook.

Bonus Project (Optional, but high-impact)
	•	Natural Language Processing (NLP) on Clinical Notes
	◦	Use synthetic notes (MIMIC-III or other datasets).
	◦	Apply topic modeling or BERT embeddings to extract insights (e.g., most common symptoms before readmission).
	◦	This shows frontier skills.

With this setup:
	•	Data Engineering → ETL + star schema.
	•	Analytics/Reporting → SQL + BI dashboards.
	•	Advanced Analytics → healthcare cohorts/claims.
	•	ML → predictive readmissions.
	•	Flagship → end-to-end integration.

healthcare-data-portfolio
│
├── README.md                 # High-level overview of portfolio
├── 01_data_engineering/      # ETL + Star Schema
│   ├── README.md             # Explains pipeline, schema design
│   ├── scripts/              # Python ETL scripts
│   ├── sql/                  # SQL for star schema & transformations
│   ├── erd.png               # ER diagram
│   └── docker-compose.yml    # Optional: containerized pipeline
│
├── 02_analytics_reporting/   # BI Dashboards
│   ├── README.md             # Explains metrics, dashboards
│   ├── sql/                  # Queries powering dashboards
│   ├── dashboards/           # Screenshots/GIF exports of Tableau/Power BI
│   └── reports/              # Exported .pbix/.twbx (if sharable)
│
├── 03_advanced_analytics/    # Cohort & Claims Analysis
│   ├── README.md             # Describes KPIs, findings
│   ├── notebooks/            # Jupyter notebooks with analysis
│   └── plots/                # Saved plots/visuals
│
├── 04_machine_learning/      # Predictive Modeling
│   ├── README.md             # Model approach, metrics, conclusions
│   ├── notebooks/            # ML training/evaluation notebooks
│   ├── data/                 # Synthetic/sample data (if small)
│   └── results/              # ROC curves, confusion matrices, feature importance
│
├── 05_end_to_end_project/    # Flagship Project
│   ├── README.md             # Explains architecture & flow
│   ├── architecture.png      # System architecture diagram
│   ├── pipeline/             # ETL scripts + Airflow DAGs
│   ├── analytics/            # SQL + BI assets
│   ├── ml/                   # ML models + notebooks
│   └── demo/                 # Screenshots/GIF demo of pipeline/dashboard
│
└── 06_bonus_nlp/             # Optional NLP on Clinical Notes
    ├── README.md             # Approach & results
    ├── notebooks/            # NLP experiments
    └── results/              # Word clouds, topic models, embeddings

Read me
# Healthcare Data Portfolio

This portfolio demonstrates end-to-end skills in **data engineering, analytics, reporting, and machine learning**, with a focus on healthcare data.  
It highlights my ability to build robust data pipelines, design analytical models, and deliver business insights through dashboards and predictive analytics.

---

## Projects

### 1. [Data Engineering: Patient Encounter ETL](01_data_engineering/)
- Built an ETL pipeline to ingest FHIR-like encounter data into a cloud warehouse.
- Designed a **star schema** for healthcare analytics (patients, providers, encounters).
- Tools: Python, SQL, Docker, PostgreSQL.

### 2. [Analytics & Reporting: Healthcare Utilization Dashboard](02_analytics_reporting/)
- Created interactive dashboards for encounter trends, wait times, and readmission rates.
- Tools: Power BI, SQL.

### 3. [Advanced Analytics: Claims & Cohort Analysis](03_advanced_analytics/)
- Analyzed claims to measure cost per patient, chronic disease prevalence, and provider efficiency.
- Tools: SQL, Python (pandas, matplotlib).

### 4. [Machine Learning: Readmission Risk Prediction](04_machine_learning/)
- Developed models to predict hospital readmissions.
- Compared Logistic Regression, Random Forest, and XGBoost.
- Tools: Python (scikit-learn, pandas, matplotlib).

### 5. [End-to-End Project: Healthcare Outcomes Platform](05_end_to_end_project/)
- Integrated ETL pipeline, star schema, dashboards, and predictive modeling.
- Tools: Python, SQL, Airflow, Power BI, scikit-learn.

### 6. [Bonus: NLP on Clinical Notes](06_bonus_nlp/) *(optional)*
- Applied NLP to clinical notes for topic modeling and insights.
- Tools: Python (spaCy, scikit-learn, transformers).

---

## Skills Demonstrated
- **Data Engineering**: ETL pipelines, star schema design, SQL optimization.
- **Analytics & Reporting**: BI dashboards, cohort analysis, healthcare KPIs.
- **Machine Learning**: Feature engineering, classification models, evaluation.
- **Healthcare Expertise**: Claims data, FHIR schema, readmission analysis.





